Reviewer #1: Review:  Daily reference ET for California using
satellite imagery and weather station measurement interpolation


Computing a regional estimate of daily reference ET would be very
valuable.  This is an interesting approach to doing so, but it appears
incomplete and not ready for publication.

1)      The work hasn't built on previous studies.  The largest term
in the ETo equation is incoming solar radiation.  A large portion of
the text here is centered around this calculation (Sections 2.2.1 and
2.2.2).  Yet, a decade of work by Pinker et al. and the
near-operational implementation of their approach with GOES are not
mentioned here.  Similarly, I believe that Diak and/or Norman have
produced a multi-state (continental?) approach for estimating ETo .
I think they supported a web site providing such ETo information for a
large part of the U.S. on a daily basis.  This was not cited either.
At the very least, I would like to hear a) how this approach improves
on those approaches and b) how the results compare with the results of
those approaches.  This study needs to be aware of and build on the
progress already made in this field.

2)      The interpolation methods also do not build on previous work.
There have been many other studies proposing to map met data based on
"simple interpolations".  They have been based on the same (and more
complex) methods.  There have been many other studies that have built
on these results to show that more robust interpolation methods are an
improvement, and combining a network of meteorological measurements
with simple SVAT models also has potential.  The weaknesses in
interpolation expressed in this study have been seen before and
addressed (though no operational system is in place).  That is where
this study should have started.

3)      The Monte Carlo approach for determining estimate uncertainty
is far from a test of accuracy.  I understand that results at this
scale and resolution are difficult to assess.  However, I wish the
authors would put more thought into this aspect of the project.  This
uncertainty analysis is weak, flawed (as pointed out by the authors),
and probably doesn't address the concerns of the users.

4)      The conclusions section is shallow.  What has this study
accomplished?  They suggest that one next step is to incorporate a
weather prediction model into this surface parameter estimation.
There are studies in which this has been done as well (see SAHRA web
site, for example).  An accomplishment might have been to become
familiar with that work and then see how it could be simplified
without losing accuracy.

This is obviously a sincere attempt to provide a useful product to an
application of public interest.  The authors have achieved that goal.
However, by not incorporating previous work, and by apparently not
planning for an accuracy assessment, the work is a questionable
contribution to science and should not be published.




Reviewer #2: This paper presents estimation method of reference
evapotranspiration (ETo) using GOES satellite images and ground based
weather measurements. This technique attempts to estimate ETo with
spatial variability. The topic is within the focus of the journal. The
study has potential to improve future water resources management.
The paper has a few major problems and several minor problems. The
paper is acceptable with major revision.

Major Problems:

(1) I felt difficulty to understand the paper.
For example, term K first appears in page 4 (Eq. 4) but it is not
clearly explained until page 13 (Section 2.2.2). Global turbidity
database first appears in Figure 2 (page 6) but it is not explained
until page 12. I think the authors should provide a clear overview of
the author's work in the beginning of the paper. Authors attempts to
provide overview using Figure 2, but the figure is rather confusing
(see the minor comment). With the current manuscript, readers need to
read at least twice to understand the paper.

(2) ETo is easily calculated at weather stations. The value of this
paper depends on the accuracy of weather interpolation and cloud
evaluation. Using the available data, I think there is much better way
for authors to evaluate the accuracy.
A better method to evaluate the interpolation accuracy would be to use
some CIMIS stations only for validation purpose. For example, if the
authors do not use any of five stations in Sacramento area during
temperature-wind-ETo estimations, authors can use the stations for
independent validation (i.e. compare the estimated Tair, U and ETo at
Sacramento area with actual measurements at the weather stations).
This approach makes this paper much stronger. However, this change
asks authors significant amount of time and efforts. I can accept the
current method by the authors.


Minor Problems:

This paper contains several minor problems. However, the authors are
doing integrated research, and thus, sume minor problems should be
allowable. Authors do not need to correct every thing.

(1) Abstract and in Introduction:
Authors call (2km)^2 resolution as "high resolution". The (2km)^2
spatial resolution is "high" if compared to traditional point-based
ETo estimations. However, in general satellite applications, (2km)^2
is probably categorized as low resolution. For example, MODIS
(250m-1km resolution) has been named as MODerate-resolution Imaging
Spectroradiometer. Calling (2km)^2 as high resolution might confuse
readers.

(2) Reference in introduction (Walter et al., 2000):
Recently ASCE-ET group has published technical book for reference ET
(Allen et al., 2005. The ASCE Standardized Reference
Evapotranspiration Equation
(http://www.asce.org/bookstore/book.cfm?isbn=078440805X)). Think about
updating the reference from Walter et al., 2000 to the book, as the
conference proceeding is not easily accessible.

(3) Figure 1:
In Figure 1, ETo in north California (~1 mm/d) seems to be too low for
summer, even if the region is covered by cloud. Figure 3 indicates the
region does not have weather station. Does the low ETo artificially
derived by extrapolating weather data or does the area actually had
very low ETo on the specific date? Figure 13 shows that north
California has high ETo in August and the error is only 1 mm/d (i.e.
accuracy is quite high). Does it mean that the ETo of the region was
most likely ~1 mm/d at 6/18/2005? This is just a simple question (not
a problem, suggestion or recommendation).

(4) Equation 6:
I do not have Walter et al., 2000, but please double check if the
equation 6 is correct. The vapor pressure term might be es rather than
ea.

(5) Figure 2:
I have a difficulty on understanding this figure. Authors need to
better explain the figure in the manuscript. The diagram does not
agree with the ETo equations (Eq1-10). For example, K is input of Rs
in Eq 4, but it is not in figure 2. Albedo is input of Rns in Eq 3,
but it is not in figure 2. In the figure, 2-D spline is apparently
applied for wind speed, but the main text (p8) says that "Wind speed
estimations used 3-D spline". The diagram includes Global Turbidity
Database, but it is not explained until page 12. I am confused.

(6) Lapse rate (Page 9):
I could not understand where the "standard lapse rate of 5C/km" came
from. Environmental lapse rate, frequently used as a standard, is 6.5
C/km, dry adiabatic lapse rate is ~10C/km. Please explain how you have
selected 5C/km.

(7) Table 2: I cannot understand Table 2. What is lapse rate for dew
point temperature mean?  I guess the numbers in Table 2 are not "lapse
rate" but the difference of temperature caused by combination effect
of elevation (i.e. lapse rate), regional difference of weather by
local topography, soil moisture and many others.

(8) Temperature and wind interpolation (Page 10):
The temperature interpolation is very unstable in some regions (more
than 10C difference). Also, interpolation of wind speed will have
considerable error because wind is largely affected by topography and
obstacles. Even CIMIS observed wind speed would not be representative
wind of the area (as you know, measurement of "representative" wind
speed is very difficult). The errors in interpolation are okay.
However, I recommend authors to at least conduct sensitivity analysis
and tell readers how much ETo is sensitive (or insensitive) to the
error in temperature and wind speed.

(9) Solar radiation (p12):
Authors discuss the accuracy of Heliosat-II Rs by comparing with a
simple model of FAO. This discussion can be omitted. Authors are
comparing estimated Rs with actual Rs in Figure 10. The comparison in
Figure 10 is the important one.

(10) Equation 11:
This equation needs more clear explanation. I could not understand the
equation. Does the ki in the equation hourly clear-sky factor (Ki)? If
yes, why the clear-sky factor can exceed 1.0? If no, what is ki?

(11) Figure 11:
In page 14, "The spatial distribution of errors for Rs is not equal
over all parts of California as shown in Figure 2.2.2.".
I think Figure 2.2.2 must be Figure 11.

(12) Equation 12:
The first minus sign is incorrect. It must be plus. See Eq. 5.

(13) Measurement Uncertainty (pp16-18):
Unfortunately, I am not familiar with Monte-Carlo simulation, so that
I could not evaluate this part with my knowledge. However, Figure 13
is little strange for me. In the figure, estimated error of
north-western part of California is about 1 mm/d (1 standard
deviation). Average ETo of the region is about 7 mm/day. Thus, the
error in ETo is about 15% for the region. However, Figure 7 shows a
big uncertainty of temperature estimation in the region, and I do not
know if such a high accuracy is achieved for the region. Also, I guess
the error evaluation in Figure 13 does not account error of wind speed
by topographic effect etc.
Again, my comment is without understanding Monte-Carlo simulation. If
the authors believe that their method of error evaluation is correct,
I am okay with it.
- Show quoted text -



Marcela's COMMENTS

here are my comments

R1: mainly asking for justification why things were done in the way
they were.  However, i do not justify his rejection. This jutification
could have been easily added.

One of the things i see in this lines is that ,may be we can frame the
paper more as a practical model developed than a scienctific
advancement of concepts.  We are not advancing any concepts, but using
things that are standard.

I think we can not avoid doing a review of similar work (Pinker, Diak,
etc), same for interpolation (i disagree with what he says regarding
to that. The problem with California is complex terrain and lack of
data in the mountains, so i still support the use of daymet). But we
still need to justify why we use it and put it more in context of
other work.  Regarding the Monte Carlo approach, i completely disagree
with what he says. I think it is useful and we do what we can, given
the info we have. May be our mistake is to sell the Monte Carlo as
improving predictions. We are using it as an indicator of were errors
can be, so users can have less or more confidence in models. May be we
can soften the text to indicate it is just an indication.

One thing we can add in conclusions-discussion is an example of its
use.  Has the model been used already for water managers? Or may be
argument further which are potential uses.

With R2:

Rewrite, this is "easy".  This reviewer also sujest cross validation,
that is feasible.  We can do sensitivity analysis, although will be
alot work, considering the spatial and temporal dimension of data.

May be the solution is to choose another journal with more practical
orientation.


I agree with you as well that the monte-carlo simulation is very
useful, even if we don't know all the errors, to well.  I think we do
have to justiffy the method a bit more, but otherwise, it's very
useful.

